# Design of Scheduler50

 Technically, how you implemented your project and why you made the design decisions you did. Your design document should be at least several paragraphs in length. Whereas your documentation is meant to be a user’s manual, consider your design document your opportunity to give the staff a technical tour of your project underneath its hood.

# Scheduler50 had the following design goals, in this order:
- To be difficult to misuse
- To be ergonomic
- To be performant

This document describes both the overall philosophy, and also specific design
patterns used to achieve these goals

# Key design decisions and why we made them

## Database

The backend of our website relies heavily on 4 SQLite tables: attendees, availability, events, and users.  The events and users tables have PRIMARY KEY ids while availability has a FOREIGN KEY referencing id from users and attendees has a FOREIGN KEY referencing id from users and a FOREIGN KEY referencing id from events.  The events table stores information about events including the id of the creator of the event, title, etc.  The users table stores each user's username and a hash of their password, generated by werkzeug.security.  Hashing the password is ideal for improved security.  The availability table stores the user's preferences with 168 columns representing one hour of one day.  Attendees has the same structure for representing availability for a specific event.

## HTML

HTML is the markup language of choice for this project.  When combined with JavaScript and CSS it allows us to make an intuitive user interface.

## Python

We used Flask as the framework for this website, so our backend is maintained with Python code.  We are able to communicate with the database through the cs50 library for Python.  Other libraries used include werkzeug for security and datetime, time, and pytz for time zone conversion and date alterations.

The backend has several routes for various Scheduler50 displays and functions:
- "/" - the default home route displaying information relevant to the user
- "register" - deals with user registration and updates the db accordingly 
  - Checks for basic registration (username availability, password and confirmation password match)
- "login" - allows user to login
- "logout" - allows user to logout, clears Flask session
- "set_preferences" - updates the user's availability table based on new preferences (template rendered in "preferences" route)
- "create" - allows the user to create an event
  - Renders templates to add invitees to the event and select times that the creator is available
  - Updates the events table to reflect event data
- "addinvitees" - allows a user to add invitees to their event
  - Updates the attendees table to reflect new invitees
  - Includes form posting to "removeinvitee" route that deletes an invitee and updates the attendees table
- "edit" - allows the user to edit events they have created
  - Renders the create template with data from the events table
  - Updates the db when form is posted
  - Includes form to "deleteevent" route to delete an event and update the events table
- "selecttimes" - allows the user to select times they are available for a specefic event
  - Template is rendered with data from preferences reflected in the table
  - When form is posted, attendees table is updated
- "view_responses" - allows the creator of an event to view the responses from their own and other user's attendee data
- "contacts" - allows a user to see the username of other users they have invited to events in the past

## CSS, bootstrap, CS50

Most of the stylistic elements of the website are implemented with the Bootstrap framework.  Many of the designs found on our website resemble those of a past CS50 pset, "Finance."  Our own CSS file is utilized to change the color of cells and make it so that users are not able to highlight text within cells with their mouse.

## JavaScript

JavaScript allowed us to significantly enhance the user interface of Scheduler50, especially when creating the tables needed for user input and displaying the tables representing user input.  We used AJAX for some of the more complicated POST requests throughout the project.  Much of the project is based around our ability to get the value of specefic HTML elements and use that data to update our SQLite tables and render other templates.

## Jinja

Jinja provieded us with a simple way to create html templates and pass data from the backend into html files.


# How to get Scheduler50 running on your device

## Installs

Using pip, install Flask, datetime, time, and pytz on your device

## Framework

The framework requires a flask_session folder in the same folder as your project to store session data.  Simply go to the Scheduler50 folder on your device and create a flask_session folder.